===== PAGE 2980 =====
Many of those sitting around Yaxley looked impressed; his neighbor,
Dolohov, a man with a long, twisted face, clapped him on the back.
“It is a start,” said Voldemort. “But Thicknesse is only one man.
Scrimgeour must be surrounded by our people before I act. One failed attempt
on the Minister’s life will set me back a long way.”
“Yes — my Lord, that is true — but you know, as Head of the Department
of Magical Law Enforcement, Thicknesse has regular contact not only with
the Minister himself, but also with the Heads of all the other Ministry
departments. It will, I think, be easy now that we have such a high-ranking
official under our control, to subjugate the others, and then they can all work
together to bring Scrimgeour down.”
“As long as our friend Thicknesse is not discovered before he has
converted the rest,” said Voldemort. “At any rate, it remains unlikely that the
Ministry will be mine before next Saturday. If we cannot touch the boy at his
destination, then it must be done while he travels.”
“We are at an advantage there, my Lord,” said Yaxley, who seemed
determined to receive some portion of approval. “We now have several people
planted within the Department of Magical Transport. If Potter Apparates or
uses the Floo Network, we shall know immediately.”
“He will not do either,” said Snape. “The Order is eschewing any form of
transport that is controlled or regulated by the Ministry; they mistrust
everything to do with the place.”
“All the better,” said Voldemort. “He will have to move in the open. Easier
to take, by far.”
Again, Voldemort looked up at the slowly revolving body as he went on, “I
shall attend to the boy in person. There have been too many mistakes where
Harry Potter is concerned. Some of them have been my own. That Potter lives
is due more to my errors than to his triumphs.”
The company around the table watched Voldemort apprehensively, each of
them, by his or her expression, afraid that they might be blamed for Harry
Potter’s continued existence. Voldemort, however, seemed to be speaking
===== PAGE 2981 =====
more to himself than to any of them, still addressing the unconscious body
above him.
“I have been careless, and so have been thwarted by luck and chance, those
wreckers of all but the best-laid plans. But I know better now. I understand
those things that I did not understand before. I must be the one to kill Harry
Potter, and I shall be.”
At these words, seemingly in response to them, a sudden wail sounded, a
terrible, drawn-out cry of misery and pain. Many of those at the table looked
downward, startled, for the sound had seemed to issue from below their feet.
“Wormtail,” said Voldemort, with no change in his quiet, thoughtful tone,
and without removing his eyes from the revolving body above, “have I not
spoken to you about keeping our prisoner quiet?”
“Yes, m-my Lord,” gasped a small man halfway down the table, who had
been sitting so low in his chair that it had appeared, at first glance, to be
unoccupied. Now he scrambled from his seat and scurried from the room,
leaving nothing behind him but a curious gleam of silver.
“As I was saying,” continued Voldemort, looking again at the tense faces of
his followers, “I understand better now. I shall need, for instance, to borrow a
wand from one of you before I go to kill Potter.”
The faces around him displayed nothing but shock; he might have
announced that he wanted to borrow one of their arms.
“No volunteers?” said Voldemort. “Let’s see . . . Lucius, I see no reason for
you to have a wand anymore.”
Lucius Malfoy looked up. His skin appeared yellowish and waxy in the
firelight, and his eyes were sunken and shadowed. When he spoke, his voice
was hoarse.
“My Lord?”
“Your wand, Lucius. I require your wand.”
“I . . .”
Malfoy glanced sideways at his wife. She was staring straight ahead, quite
===== PAGE 2982 =====
as pale as he was, her long blonde hair hanging down her back, but beneath
the table her slim fingers closed briefly on his wrist. At her touch, Malfoy put
his hand into his robes, withdrew a wand, and passed it along to Voldemort,
who held it up in front of his red eyes, examining it closely.
“What is it?”
“Elm, my Lord,” whispered Malfoy.
“And the core?”
“Dragon — dragon heartstring.”
“Good,” said Voldemort. He drew out his own wand and compared the
lengths. Lucius Malfoy made an involuntary movement; for a fraction of a
second, it seemed he expected to receive Voldemort’s wand in exchange for
his own. The gesture was not missed by Voldemort, whose eyes widened
maliciously.
“Give you my wand, Lucius? My wand?”
Some of the throng sniggered.
“I have given you your liberty, Lucius, is that not enough for you? But I
have noticed that you and your family seem less than happy of late. . . . What
is it about my presence in your home that displeases you, Lucius?”
“Nothing — nothing, my Lord!”
“Such lies, Lucius . . .”
The soft voice seemed to hiss on even after the cruel mouth had stopped
moving. One or two of the wizards barely repressed a shudder as the hissing
grew louder; something heavy could be heard sliding across the floor beneath
the table.
The huge snake emerged to climb slowly up Voldemort’s chair. It rose,
seemingly endlessly, and came to rest across Voldemort’s shoulders: its neck
the thickness of a man’s thigh; its eyes, with their vertical slits for pupils,
unblinking. Voldemort stroked the creature absently with long thin fingers,
still looking at Lucius Malfoy.
“Why do the Malfoys look so unhappy with their lot? Is my return, my rise
===== PAGE 2983 =====
to power, not the very thing they professed to desire for so many years?”
“Of course, my Lord,” said Lucius Malfoy. His hand shook as he wiped
sweat from his upper lip. “We did desire it — we do.”
To Malfoy’s left, his wife made an odd, stiff nod, her eyes averted from
Voldemort and the snake. To his right, his son, Draco, who had been gazing
up at the inert body overhead, glanced quickly at Voldemort and away again,
terrified to make eye contact.
“My Lord,” said a dark woman halfway down the table, her voice
constricted with emotion, “it is an honor to have you here, in our family’s
house. There can be no higher pleasure.”
She sat beside her sister, as unlike her in looks, with her dark hair and
heavily lidded eyes, as she was in bearing and demeanor; where Narcissa sat
rigid and impassive, Bellatrix leaned toward Voldemort, for mere words could
not demonstrate her longing for closeness.
“No higher pleasure,” repeated Voldemort, his head tilted a little to one side
as he considered Bellatrix. “That means a great deal, Bellatrix, from you.”
Her face flooded with color; her eyes welled with tears of delight.
“My Lord knows I speak nothing but the truth!”
“No higher pleasure . . . even compared with the happy event that, I hear,
has taken place in your family this week?”
She stared at him, her lips parted, evidently confused.
“I don’t know what you mean, my Lord.”
“I’m talking about your niece, Bellatrix. And yours, Lucius and Narcissa.
She has just married the werewolf, Remus Lupin. You must be so proud.”
There was an eruption of jeering laughter from around the table. Many
leaned forward to exchange gleeful looks; a few thumped the table with their
fists. The great snake, disliking the disturbance, opened its mouth wide and
hissed angrily, but the Death Eaters did not hear it, so jubilant were they at
Bellatrix and the Malfoys’ humiliation. Bellatrix’s face, so recently flushed
with happiness, had turned an ugly, blotchy red.
===== PAGE 2984 =====
“She is no niece of ours, my Lord,” she cried over the outpouring of mirth.
“We — Narcissa and I — have never set eyes on our sister since she married
the Mudblood. This brat has nothing to do with either of us, nor any beast she
marries.”
“What say you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, and though his voice was quiet,
it carried clearly through the catcalls and jeers. “Will you babysit the cubs?”
The hilarity mounted; Draco Malfoy looked in terror at his father, who was
staring down into his own lap, then caught his mother’s eye. She shook her
head almost imperceptibly, then resumed her own deadpan stare at the
opposite wall.
“Enough,” said Voldemort, stroking the angry snake. “Enough.”
And the laughter died at once.
“Many of our oldest family trees become a little diseased over time,” he
said as Bellatrix gazed at him, breathless and imploring. “You must prune
yours, must you not, to keep it healthy? Cut away those parts that threaten the
health of the rest.”
“Yes, my Lord,” whispered Bellatrix, and her eyes swam with tears of
gratitude again. “At the first chance!”
“You shall have it,” said Voldemort. “And in your family, so in the
world . . . we shall cut away the canker that infects us until only those of the
true blood remain. . . .”
Voldemort raised Lucius Malfoy’s wand, pointed it directly at the slowly
revolving figure suspended over the table, and gave it a tiny flick. The figure
came to life with a groan and began to struggle against invisible bonds.
“Do you recognize our guest, Severus?” asked Voldemort.
Snape raised his eyes to the upside-down face. All of the Death Eaters were
looking up at the captive now, as though they had been given permission to
show curiosity. As she revolved to face the firelight, the woman said in a
cracked and terrified voice, “Severus! Help me!”
“Ah, yes,” said Snape as the prisoner turned slowly away again.
===== PAGE 2985 =====
“And you, Draco?” asked Voldemort, stroking the snake’s snout with his
wand-free hand. Draco shook his head jerkily. Now that the woman had
woken, he seemed unable to look at her anymore.
“But you would not have taken her classes,” said Voldemort. “For those of
you who do not know, we are joined here tonight by Charity Burbage who,
until recently, taught at Hogwarts School of Witchcraft and Wizardry.”
There were small noises of comprehension around the table. A broad,
hunched woman with pointed teeth cackled.
“Yes . . . Professor Burbage taught the children of witches and wizards all
about Muggles . . . how they are not so different from us . . . .”
One of the Death Eaters spat on the floor. Charity Burbage revolved to face
Snape again.
“Severus . . . please . . . please . . .”
“Silence,” said Voldemort, with another twitch of Malfoy’s wand, and
Charity fell silent as if gagged. “Not content with corrupting and polluting the
minds of Wizarding children, last week Professor Burbage wrote an
impassioned defense of Mudbloods in the Daily Prophet. Wizards, she says,
must accept these thieves of their knowledge and magic. The dwindling of the
purebloods is, says Professor Burbage, a most desirable circumstance. . . . She
would have us all mate with Muggles . . . or, no doubt, werewolves. . . .”
Nobody laughed this time: There was no mistaking the anger and contempt
in Voldemort’s voice. For the third time, Charity Burbage revolved to face
Snape. Tears were pouring from her eyes into her hair. Snape looked back at
her, quite impassive, as she turned slowly away from him again.
“Avada Kedavra.”
The flash of green light illuminated every corner of the room. Charity fell,
with a resounding crash, onto the table below, which trembled and creaked.
Several of the Death Eaters leapt back in their chairs. Draco fell out of his
onto the floor.
“Dinner, Nagini,” said Voldemort softly, and the great snake swayed and
slithered from his shoulders onto the polished wood.
===== PAGE 2986 =====
H
 
CHAPTER TWO
IN MEMORIAM
arry was bleeding. Clutching his right hand in his left and swearing
under his breath, he shouldered open his bedroom door. There was a
crunch of breaking china: He had trodden on a cup of cold tea that had been
sitting on the floor outside his bedroom door.
“What the — ?”
He looked around; the landing of number four, Privet Drive, was deserted.
Possibly the cup of tea was Dudley’s idea of a clever booby trap. Keeping his
bleeding hand elevated, Harry scraped the fragments of cup together with the
other hand and threw them into the already crammed bin just visible inside his
bedroom door. Then he tramped across to the bathroom to run his finger
under the tap.
It was stupid, pointless, irritating beyond belief that he still had four days
left of being unable to perform magic . . . but he had to admit to himself that
this jagged cut in his finger would have defeated him. He had never learned
how to repair wounds, and now he came to think of it — particularly in light
of his immediate plans — this seemed a serious flaw in his magical education.
Making a mental note to ask Hermione how it was done, he used a large wad
of toilet paper to mop up as much of the tea as he could, before returning to
his bedroom and slamming the door behind him.
===== PAGE 2987 =====
Harry had spent the morning completely emptying his school trunk for the
first time since he had packed it six years ago. At the start of the intervening
school years, he had merely skimmed off the topmost three quarters of the
contents and replaced or updated them, leaving a layer of general debris at the
bottom — old quills, desiccated beetle eyes, single socks that no longer fit.
Minutes previously, Harry had plunged his hand into this mulch, experienced
a stabbing pain in the fourth finger of his right hand, and withdrawn it to see a
lot of blood.
He now proceeded a little more cautiously. Kneeling down beside the trunk
again, he groped around in the bottom and, after retrieving an old badge that
flickered feebly between SUPPORT CEDRIC DIGGORY and POTTER STINKS,
a cracked and worn-out Sneakoscope, and a gold locket inside which a note
signed R.A.B. had been hidden, he finally discovered the sharp edge that had
done the damage. He recognized it at once. It was a two-inch-long fragment
of the enchanted mirror that his dead godfather, Sirius, had given him. Harry
laid it aside and felt cautiously around the trunk for the rest, but nothing more
remained of his godfather’s last gift except powdered glass, which clung to
the deepest layer of debris like glittering grit.
Harry sat up and examined the jagged piece on which he had cut himself,
seeing nothing but his own bright green eye reflected back at him. Then he
placed the fragment on top of that morning’s Daily Prophet, which lay unread
on the bed, and attempted to stem the sudden upsurge of bitter memories, the
stabs of regret and of longing the discovery of the broken mirror had
occasioned, by attacking the rest of the rubbish in the trunk.
It took another hour to empty it completely, throw away the useless items,
and sort the remainder in piles according to whether or not he would need
them from now on. His school and Quidditch robes, cauldron, parchment,
quills, and most of his textbooks were piled in a corner, to be left behind. He
wondered what his aunt and uncle would do with them; burn them in the dead
of night, probably, as if they were the evidence of some dreadful crime. His
Muggle clothing, Invisibility Cloak, potion-making kit, certain books, the
photograph album Hagrid had once given him, a stack of letters, and his wand
had been repacked into an old rucksack. In a front pocket were the
===== PAGE 2988 =====
Marauder’s Map and the locket with the note signed R.A.B. inside it. The
locket was accorded this place of honor not because it was valuable — in all
usual senses it was worthless — but because of what it had cost to attain it.
This left a sizable stack of newspapers sitting on his desk beside his snowy
owl, Hedwig: one for each of the days Harry had spent at Privet Drive this
summer.
He got up off the floor, stretched, and moved across to his desk. Hedwig
made no movement as he began to flick through the newspapers, throwing
them onto the rubbish pile one by one. The owl was asleep, or else faking; she
was angry with Harry about the limited amount of time she was allowed out
of her cage at the moment.
As he neared the bottom of the pile of newspapers, Harry slowed down,
searching for one particular issue that he knew had arrived shortly after he
had returned to Privet Drive for the summer; he remembered that there had
been a small mention on the front about the resignation of Charity Burbage,
the Muggle Studies teacher at Hogwarts. At last he found it. Turning to page
ten, he sank into his desk chair and reread the article he had been looking for.
ALBUS DUMBLEDORE REMEMBERED
by Elphias Doge
I met Albus Dumbledore at the age of eleven, on our first day
at Hogwarts. Our mutual attraction was undoubtedly due to
the fact that we both felt ourselves to be outsiders. I had
contracted dragon pox shortly before arriving at school, and
while I was no longer contagious, my pockmarked visage and greenish
hue did not encourage many to approach me. For his part, Albus had
arrived at Hogwarts under the burden of unwanted notoriety. Scarcely a
year previously, his father, Percival, had been convicted of a savage and
well-publicized attack upon three young Muggles.
Albus never attempted to deny that his father (who was to die in
Azkaban) had committed this crime; on the contrary, when I plucked up
courage to ask him, he assured me that he knew his father to be guilty.
Beyond that, Dumbledore refused to speak of the sad business, though
===== PAGE 2989 =====
many attempted to make him do so. Some, indeed, were disposed to
praise his father’s action and assumed that Albus too was a Muggle-
hater. They could not have been more mistaken: As anybody who knew
Albus would attest, he never revealed the remotest anti-Muggle
tendency. Indeed, his determined support for Muggle rights gained him
many enemies in subsequent years.
In a matter of months, however, Albus’s own fame had begun to
eclipse that of his father. By the end of his first year he would never
again be known as the son of a Muggle-hater, but as nothing more or less
than the most brilliant student ever seen at the school. Those of us who
were privileged to be his friends benefited from his example, not to
mention his help and encouragement, with which he was always
generous. He confessed to me in later life that he knew even then that his
greatest pleasure lay in teaching.
He not only won every prize of note that the school offered, he was
soon in regular correspondence with the most notable magical names of
the day, including Nicolas Flamel, the celebrated alchemist; Bathilda
Bagshot, the noted historian; and Adalbert Waffling, the magical
theoretician. Several of his papers found their way into learned
publications such as Transfiguration Today, Challenges in Charming,
and The Practical Potioneer. Dumbledore’s future career seemed likely
to be meteoric, and the only question that remained was when he would
become Minister of Magic. Though it was often predicted in later years
that he was on the point of taking the job, however, he never had
Ministerial ambitions.
Three years after we had started at Hogwarts, Albus’s brother,
Aberforth, arrived at school. They were not alike; Aberforth was never
bookish and, unlike Albus, preferred to settle arguments by dueling
rather than through reasoned discussion. However, it is quite wrong to
suggest, as some have, that the brothers were not friends. They rubbed
along as comfortably as two such different boys could do. In fairness to
Aberforth, it must be admitted that living in Albus’s shadow cannot have
been an altogether comfortable experience. Being continually outshone